Add references about configurations and environment variables (#38)
front-commerce/developers.front-commerce.com: source/docs/reference/environment-variables.md

---
id: environment-variables
title: Environment variables
---

The environment variables available in Front-Commerce are the configurations that are likely to change depending on the current environment of your application. For instance, you could have three different environments: production, staging and local.

> These environment variables can be defined in two diferrent ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These environment variables can be defined in two different ways:
```

* on your server (See [How To Read and Set Environmental and Shell Variables on a Linux VPS](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-read-and-set-environmental-and-shell-variables-on-a-linux-vps))
* in the `.env` file in your root folder

> You can then access them by using the `process.env` object in your javascript files. This variable is available in both your server side code and client side code. However,

Reviewer: It could be misleading… here is a proposal:

```suggestion
You can then access them by using the `process.env` object in your javascript files no matter if it is a server-side or client-side file. However,
```

not all variables are exposed in your client code. Client code only have access to variables such as `FRONT_COMMERCE_WEB_*`. See [Add your own environment variables](http://localhost:4444/docs/reference/environment-variables.html#Add-your-own-environment-variables) for more details.

## How to update environment variables

> However, in some cases you can't update these variables only by updating your server's variable.

Reviewer: To discuss.

Author: WIP

---
id: environment-variables
title: Environment variables
---

The environment variables available in Front-Commerce are the configurations that are likely to change depending on the current environment of your application. For instance, you could have three different environments: production, staging and local.

> These environment variables are the ones available on your server. You can also set them in your `.env` file in your root folder, and they will be loaded on launch.

Reviewer: I think we should make it a bit clearer and make the difference between the build environment and the running server one. Also it would be a good idea to recall that one can access an environment variable under the `process.env` variable.

Finally, it could also be a good think to link to the last section or rewrite here that only `FRONT_COMMERCE_WEB_xxxxxx` variables are available in the React app.

## Front-Commerce related variables

### Host

Configure the execution environment of the Front-Commerce's application:

> - `FRONT_COMMERCE_PORT` (default: 4000): The port of the launched server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `FRONT_COMMERCE_PORT` (default: `4000`): The port of the launched server
```

> - `FRONT_COMMERCE_HOST` (default: 0.0.0.0): The host of the launched server. It might be useful to set it to 127.0.0.1 if you want to only listen local requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `FRONT_COMMERCE_HOST` (default: `0.0.0.0`): The host of the launched server. It might be useful to set it to `127.0.0.1` if you want to only listen local requests.
```

- `FRONT_COMMERCE_URL`: The URL available to access to your Front-Commerce application (http://localhost:4000 in your local environment, and your website URL on the production environment)
- `FRONT_COMMERCE_ENV`: `dev` or `production` in order to remove debugging options on the server side (ex: we disable GraphQL playground in production mode)
- `FRONT_COMMERCE_COOKIE_DOMAIN`: the domain of your cookie, most likely the same one used in `FRONT_COMMERCE_URL` (ex: localhost or the your domain name)
- `FRONT_COMMERCE_COOKIE_PASS`: a secret to secure the cookies exchanged with the client

### Cache

- `FRONT_COMMERCE_CACHE_API_TOKEN`: a token that will let external applications invalidate parts of Front-Commerce cache. <!-- TODO link to dataloaders and cache invalidation documentation -->

### Sitemap

- `FRONT_COMMERCE_SITEMAP_TOKEN`: a token that secures the sitemap query in your GraphQL Schema

### PWA

> - `FRONT_COMMERCE_DISABLE_OFFLINE_MODE`: in case you don't want to load the offline page when the user is disconnected

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `FRONT_COMMERCE_DISABLE_OFFLINE_MODE`: in case you don't want to load the offline page when the user is offline
```
